# What is Niffler Network

Niffler Network is a set of decentralized protocols built for the hashrate economy. 

On Niffler Network, miners can generate consecutive and verifiable hashrate proofs for the hashrate they maintain, and publish the proofs to smart contract blockchains. The proofs can be wrapped as a new class of revenue-bearing crypto assets and participate in all kinds of DeFi protocols.



## Roles

{% hint style="info" %}
In the current POC stage, only miners and investors are involved in the model. There will be more roles as Niffler developing.
{% endhint %}

### Miner

Miners can generate proofs for their hashrate, mint tokens with the proofs, and redistribute the tokens (e.g. sell on the market).

### Investor

Investors can buy hashrate tokens from the marketplace, or from the miners directly.

#### In the future, there will be more roles involved by Niffler, including validators, developers, third-party protocols, etc.

## Components

### Hashrate Oracle

This is the core of Niffler Network. Generated by off-chain zero-knowledge prover nodes, the hashrate proofs will be fed to smart contracts like a price oracle. The detailed design of proof generating is described in an academic paper, which will be published soon.

###  Token Mint

With hashrate proofs, miners can generate cooresponding NFT to circulating the proofs and underlying hashrate.

### Marketplace

The minted NFT can be split into multiple shards. Each shard represents a part of the NFT, which can be traded on the secondary market.
